Scientific Fields of Interest: Agriculture; Biology; Biochemistry/Biophysics; Environment.
Main Lines of Research and Training Activities: Agricultural and plant biotechnology: tissue culture
and crop improvement, particularly for yams (Dioscorea), cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata) and beans
(Phaseolus vulgaris); biotechnology to improve nitrogen fixation and VAM fungus to improve P uptake in
legumes and non-legumes; yam biotechnology. Molecular Biology: release of genetically manipulated
microorganisms into soils; research and training in gene cloning; DNA sequencing of viruses affecting
plants and animals by the use of PCR; plant molecular biology; RFLP analysis of plant genome.
Environmental Biotechnology: recycling of agricultural and animal wastes for feed and fertilizer
production.
Major Scientific Results or Products: In field trials, co-selected strain of VAM fungus and Rhizobia
have shown 30 percent increase in cowpea yield, with results that can be applied and tested in Africa
and Southeast Asia. Field trials have shown cost reduction in sweet yam production (Dioscorea alata) by
use of minisett technology, which can be applied and tested in African and Pacific countries. DNA
sequencing of Bean Golden Mosaic Virus (BGMV) and production of virus resistant bean (Phaseolus
vulgaris).
Main Research Facilities Available: Ultra centrifuge, laminar flow chamber, cold room, deep freezer,
scintillation counter, 20L and 1L fermentor, densitometer, gel electrophoresis apparatus, greenhouse,
plant growth chamber, freeze dryer, GLC, PC computers, sonicator, large and small shakers, sterilizer,
ice machine, fraction collector, spectrophotometer, DNA Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR).
Future Development Plans: Centre will seek to excell in molecular biology and plant biotechnology with
special emphasis on such export crops as yams and sweet potatoes. Plans to develop programmes in
environmental biotechnology focusing on biodegradation and recycling of industrial and agricultural
waste